All right, another optimization that I want to show you has to do with how we are creating our prepared
statements.
I don't know if you'll remember this.
It's been quite a while since I originally talked to you about the prepared statements, but I want
to remind you of the fact that one of the benefits of prepared statements is that they are prepared
in advance of when they are actually needed.
And what that really means is that when we create a prepared statement, JBC takes our skill that we
pass in to that prepared statement and it actually sends it to the database and allows the database
to compile that SQL statement or query into a lower level form that can execute more quickly.
Because normally when we create sequel that SQL has to be analyzed and parsed by the database to figure
out how it's going to actually execute that sequel, that takes time.
And if we were to just create a regular statement, not a prepared statement, but a regular statement
that analysis and planning and all of those things would have to be done each and every time we send
that sequel to the database and ask the database to execute it.
However, if we create a prepared statement, the database can do all of that up front.
One time potentially.
And then each subsequent time that we actually asked the database to execute that prepared statement,
it can execute much more quickly.
However, with the way that we've currently written our code, we're not getting the full benefit of
using this prepared statement.
The reason we're not getting the full benefit is because each time we call these crud operations, such
as save or find all and everything else, we're asking the database to recreate the prepared statement
for us at that moment.
OK, so we're not getting as much of the benefit now.
One benefit that we are still getting is the fact that we still get to use the by-nd parameters, which
protects us from SQL injection.
Go back and watch the old videos that I did on on SQL injection and things of that sort.
If you need a reminder on what I'm talking about there.
So we are still getting that benefit, but we could be getting even more benefit in terms of speed ups
if we were to create these prepared statements just one time for the entire running of the application
and not keep recreating them every single time.
We want to run one of these crud operations, such as save or find all or delete or whatever.
So I just want to show you quickly some ideas of what we could do to optimize this as well, and it's
actually pretty easy.
So here we are in the save method and we are creating a prepared statement.
And like I said, every time we call save, we're going to end up recreating the same prepared statement.
So the question is how could we just prepare this statement or create the statement one time for the
lifetime of our application and then just keep reusing it?
Can you think of a way to do that?
OK.
Did you come up with a with a solution?
It's really, really simple, really.
We can just convert this prepared statement into a field of the class, right?
And so we can initialize it one time, presumably like maybe when we first create the class and then
just keep reusing it after that.
So that's what we're going to do here.
So this is actually quite easy to do.
We can just select this prepared statement for our save and I can do an option command f to create a
field or introduce a field.
OK.
Just like that.
And now I'm going to want to rename this because throughout our code, throughout this class where we're
calling all of the local prepared statements piece.
And obviously, we won't be able to do that if we convert them all into fields.
They'll all conflict with each other.
So I'm going to rename this to something like save peace.
So this is the prepared statement for saving values.
And then I will hit return.
OK.
And so look what that did.
That changed the name of this particular variable from peace to save peace.
Then it moved the declaration of it up here as a private field of the abstract class.
OK, and now we haven't solved everything yet because we're still actually creating it down here in
the save method.
And that's exactly what we don't want to do, right?
We want to create this just one time for the entire lifetime of this class.
So what we can do here is actually just move this up to the constructor because the constructor is called
when we create an instance of this class anyway, right?
And so that is the perfect time and the perfect opportunity for us to create this prepared statement
one time.
So all I'm going to do here is just move it up with an option shift or, I think, alt shift.
And up, Arrow, and then I'm going to fix my indentation with the Shift tab.
And so that's almost done.
However, now we've got this error here, and that's simply because this prepared statement method does
throw a sequel exception.
And so I need to do one or two things.
I either need to wrap this call in a try catch or I need to declare that this constructor is capable
of throwing a sequel exception or some type of exception.
I've mentioned before that it's generally not good on public methods in our repository class to declare
that those methods can throw exceptions that are specific to database and GDC, such as SQL exception.
Because you'll learn, hopefully, probably in the next module about the fact that we have all of these
layers, these application layers, and we don't want SQL exceptions that are related to the database
stuff to leak out from our database layer of code into higher layers of code that would depend on them.
We don't want that.
So probably a better thing to do would be to just wrap this in a try catch block, and I'm going to
do that by just selecting everything here.
And then I will do an optional command tee and choose to surround with try catch, which is number six.
All right.
So that just took those two lines and surrounded them with this try catch block.
And it did the analysis to determine that the one exception that could be thrown from any of that code
was a sequel exception.
And so it's giving me the catch for the sequel exception right here.
Now, technically, I should be doing more than simply printing a stack trace.
What I really should be doing is probably be translating the sequel exception into a more custom business
level exception.
I'm not sure what that looks like shortly, but for now, let's stay just with this bit right here.
So now we've got our save prepared statement here and notice no errors down here.
This is all still being useful.
And so now I can actually rerun all of our tests, then we shouldn't have any problems.
So let's just see that real quick.
Let me open up everything and I will just run all the tests.
Yep, and everything's looking good.
No problems there.
But now we're only creating the prepared statement one time for the lifetime of this class, which is
generally the lifetime of the application.
And so I could go through and do the same thing down here.
And in fact, I will do at least one more just to show you.
So again, I will.
So now I'm in the Find My ID method.
I will select this prepared statement.
I will convert it into a field.
I will rename it to find by I.D..
P.S. Enter.
All right.
And then I will just move this line up.
There we go.
And I'll just put it right underneath the save piece and then I can rerun the tests again.
There we go and still looking good.
All right, so you get the basic idea, right?
And one of the other nice things about doing this in this way is that because we're in the constructor
here, I still can access and call all of these methods just like we needed to in order to in order
to find all of our annotations and find the sequel code that's associated with those annotations.
All of that still works, obviously, right?
But again, now we're only doing it one time for the entire class instead of every single time someone
calls these methods.
So this is quite useful and you really should be doing it this way.
If you're if you're going to create prepared statements.
So arguably, maybe I shouldn't have taught you to create prepared statements directly in these methods
that could be called multiple times, but we were learning so many things in this module that I just
didn't want to overwhelm you any further than I absolutely had to.
But now that we're learning about optimizations, this is an important one.
Don't put your prepared statements in methods that get called multiple times.
Only call your prepared statement ideally once for the lifetime of your application.
Let it do its thing and then store that prepared statement somewhere where you can just reuse it.
Lots of times like we're doing here.
Very, very beneficial.
And that's really all I wanted to show you about this.
And I guess before we close this out, because this was a pretty short one, let me go ahead and address
this stack trace business real quick here.
So what we could do and you'll see this from time to time in well architected Java applications, is
that, like I said earlier, instead of letting an exception like SQL exception or other exceptions
that are in this case related to talking with the database to bubble out beyond the repository layer
or our database layer of code, it would be better to introduce a custom exemption class that is more
appropriate to be used throughout multiple layers of our application.
So I'm going to show you what that looks like really quickly, and we'll talk.
We'll probably talk a little bit more about this pattern, either in the next module or in the next
course, where I go much more deeper into fully fledged application development.
But let me just show you quickly here what we could do.
So I'm going to open up the project view here.
And what I would typically do is I would create a new package.
And maybe I would call this package exception.
And then I can create a new class and because this is just a quick example.
Maybe I'm going to call this a data exception for right now, that might not be the best name, but
I don't want to take a lot of time here, so I'm creating a data exception.
Now here's the thing.
This data type is going to be a type of exception.
So what I'm going to do for now is I'm going to make this class extend runtime exception.
Now you may recall from our lessons on exceptions that we've generally got three types of exceptions,
but only two that we really focused on.
In this course, we've we have checked exceptions and unchecked exceptions.
Check the exceptions are exceptions that extend the exception class.
OK, unchecked are the ones that extend runtime exception like we're doing here, and unchecked exceptions
do not require you to wrap your code in try catch blocks if that code is capable of throwing an unchecked
exception.
On the other hand, checked exceptions do force us to wrap our code in try catch block.
So if we jump back over here again, this call to prepared statement can throw a sequel exception sequel
exception is a checked exception.
And so the fact that I'm calling prepared statement forced me to have to either wrap that call in a
try catch block, or I could have declared that this entire constructor throws SQL exception.
That's me kind of like passing the responsibility down to whoever calls this constructor so that they
have to deal with it instead of me in this code here.
OK.
And let me make some room here real quick.
So as a quick reminder, I mentioned before in this course that you should create checked exceptions
for situations that can be anticipated and handled in a reasonable way within your code.
Whereas unchecked exceptions are more like situations that either you could not anticipate or even if
you could anticipate it, there's not much that you could do about it if that exception were to occur.
So the reason for now that I'm choosing to create my new class here as a runtime exception is because
if a single exception occurs at this point in the code, there are probably only two reasonable reasons
why that would happen, either.
It would be because the database itself was no longer running or accessible to this code, or our skill
code has an error in it like it's poorly formed or, you know, has some kind of problem with the sequel
statements that we're trying to create the prepared statement from in either event.
There's nothing we can do programmatically to recover from either of those circumstances.
And as I said earlier, if you can't recover from the exception programmatically, then it's usually
recommended to just make that exception a runtime exception.
So now let me let me say what I'm going to do with this new exception.
What I'm going to do is in this catch block here, I'm going to basically translate this sequel exception
into the new exception.
In fact, let's go and do that first.
All right.
So we're creating this exception called data exception.
So what I could do is simply say something like throw new data exception like, so now that's really
a little inadequate for what we should be doing.
Ideally, we might at least want to associate a useful message with this exception, so that we could
have a better understanding of what has actually gone wrong.
So maybe we could say something in the constructor, like unable to create prepared statements for crud
repository.
Maybe we want to say something along those lines.
So at a minimum, we might want to do that.
Now I'm getting red squiggly because I have not actually defined a constructor that takes a message
like this, but obviously I can have the ADP help us out here.
I doing an option return and tell it to create that constructor like so.
And then I will call this parameter message or mzgee like so.
And then I can call super like so and then pass in that message right now, the reason I can call super
is because the runtime exception class itself defines a constructor that can take a message.
So it's a very common pattern that exceptions can take an input other message.
And in fact, there's another version of the constructor that takes both a message and something of
type.
Throw a ball, which is considered to be the cause.
Now, I didn't go into a lot of detail on this, but the trouble is really the parent class for all
exceptions.
And so that is to say that I could pass in both a message and the original exception that caused me
to have to throw another exception in the first place.
So let me show you what that looks like.
So that would mean that in addition to passing in this message here, I could also pass in E!
In this case, where E is the exception, the original sequel exception that we received in the first
place.
So that way, I'm not just like completely ignoring it.
I actually have access to that as well.
Now I got red squiggles again, though, because I don't have a constructor that can take both a message
of a string and a throw.
So again, I can let the edy create that constructor as well.
I could add this to the existing constructor.
I could create a new constructor.
Maybe for now, I will create a new one.
So again, something that takes a message, and here I will just say something that takes a throw a
ball and I'm OK to call that e.
And now I can do call super again and pass in the message and the E like setup.
OK, so now I've got two ways that I can use this new data exception class and the red squiggles go
away.
So what I wanted to show you here is that this is generally a better pattern in many cases for our business
applications.
Rather than allowing sequels ception to bubble up from our database code and into other classes that
have nothing at all to do with database access.
It is often better to kind of wrap those exceptions in a more customized exception where we can control
what's going on a little bit better.
And so this is like one of the simplest ways that we could do that.
And then ideally, we'd probably be going back through all of our code like here and we'd be doing the
same thing down here through new data exception or something like that.
OK, now I'm not going to take the time to do that, but that's a better pattern in many cases here.
OK.
So, all right, that's all I wanted to show you.
And with that, I'm going to wrap up this lesson and I'll see you in the next one.